# Industry Scope
The business of investment has several facets, the employment of professional fund managers, research , dealing, settlement, marketing, internal auditing, and the preparation of reports for clients. The largest financial fund managers are firms that exhibit all the complexity their size demands. Apart from the people who bring in the money and the people who direct investment, there are compliance staff, internal auditors of various kinds , financial controllers, computer experts, and "back office" employees.

## Key problems of running such businesses
Key problems include:
    - Revenue is directly linked to market valuations, so a major fall in asset prices can cause a precipitous decline in revenues relative to costs
    - Above-average fund performance is difficult to sustain, and clients may not be patient during times of poor performance
    - Successful fund managers are expensive and may be headhunted by competitors
    - Above-average fund performance appears to be dependent on the unique skills of the fund manager
    - Analysts who generate above-average returns often become sufficiently wealthy that they avoid corporate employment in favor of managing their personal portfolios

## Representing the owners of shares
Institutions often control huge shareholdings. In most cases, they are acting as fiduciary agents rather than principals (direct owners). The owners of shares theoretically have great power to alter the companies via the voting rights the shares carry and the consequent ability to pressure managements, and if necessary out-vote them at annual and other meetings.

In practice, the ultimate owners of shares often do not exercise the power they collectively hold; financial institutions sometimes do. There is a general belief that shareholders – in this case, the institutions acting as agents—could and should exercise more active influence over the companies in which they hold shares. Such action would add a pressure group to those overseeing management.

However, there is the problem of how the institution should exercise this power. One way is for the institution to decide, the other is for the institution to poll its beneficiaries. Assuming that the institution polls, should it then: 
    1. Vote the entire holding as directed by the majority of votes cast ?
    2. Split the vote according to the proportions of the vote ?
    3. Respect the abstainers and only vote the respondents' holdings ?

The price signals generated by large active managers holding or not holding the stock may contribute to management change. For example, this is the case when a large active manager sells his position in a company, leading to (possibly) a decline in the stock price, but more importantly a loss of confidence by the markets in the management of the company, thus precipitating changes in the management team.

Some institutions have been more vocal and active in pursuing such matters; for instance, some firms believe that there are investment advantages to accumulating substantial minority shareholdings (i.e. 10% or more) and putting pressure on management to implement significant changes in the business. In some cases, institutions with minority holdings work together to force management change. Perhaps more frequent is the sustained pressure that large institutions bring to bear on management teams through persuasive discourse and PR. On the other hand, some of the largest investment managers—such as BlackRock and Vanguard—advocate simply owning every company, reducing the incentive to influence management teams. A reason for this last strategy is that the investment manager prefers a closer, more open, and honest relationship with a company's management team than would exist if they exercised control; allowing them to make a better investment decision.

- To visit the original wikipedia page, follow this link: (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Investment_management#Industry_scope)
